h1(#name). Name

_mq&#95;copy_ &#45; Command line interface to Linux, POSIX, message queues.

h1(#description). Description

Provides a command line interface, usable by scripting languages, to the Linux system of POSIX message queues.

The Linux system provides the POSIX message queues as a modified file descriptor. The default location is under the directory: _/dev/mqueue_ .

POSIX message queues have kernel persistence. If not removed by _unlink_, the queue will exist until the system is shut down. The action: _"unlink on close"_ is a _mq&#95;copy_ command line option.

POSIX message queues allow processes to exchange data in the form of messages.

_mq&#95;copy_ supports line oriented, string messages. That is, lines terminated by the new&#45;line character.

_mq&#95;copy_ provides two basic functions: _copy&#95;in_ and _copy&#95;out_.

* The _copy&#45;in_ function copies line oriented strings on _stdin_ as messages to a specified queue.
* The _copy&#45;out_ function copies messages from the specified queue as line oriented strings to _stdout_.

h1(#arguments). Arguments

_ mq&#95;copy_ [ &#45;&#45;in &#124; &#45;&#45;out ] [ options ]_ /queue&#95;name_

The minimum command arguments are the function, either _ - in_ (copy&#95;in) or _ - out_ (copy&#95;out) and the name of an existing queue. The GLIBC library requires that the queue name begin with the path separator character '/'.

h2(#function). Function

 [ &#45;&#45;ci &#124; &#45;&#45;in &#124; &#45;i ] copy stdin to queue

 [ &#45;&#45;co &#124; &#45;&#45;out &#124; &#45;o ] copy queue to stdout

h2(#options). Options

 [ &#45;&#45;create &#124; &#45;&#45;cr &#124; &#45;c ] Create queue if not already present on open

 [ &#45;&#45;exclusive &#124; &#45;&#45;ex &#124; &#45;x ] Create queue on open, queue must not exist.

 Default  Open existing queue

 [ &#45;&#45;ro &#124; &#45;r ] Open queue as read&#45;only

 [ &#45;&#45;wo &#124; &#45;w ] Open queue as write&#45;only

 Default Open queue as read&#45;write

 [ &#45;&#45;mode &#124; &#45;&#45;md &#124; &#45;m ] &lt;perm&gt; Set user and group permissions. Permissions must be either three or four octal digits (not symbols).

 Default 0660

 [ &#45;&#45;attributes &#124; &#45;&#45;at &#124; &#45;a ] &lt;at&#45;list&gt; One or more, comma separated, name=value pairs or feature.

 Example, showing default values:

&#45;a maxmsgs=10,msgsize=256,noblock

where:

maxmsgs: The maximum number of messages the queue will hold.

msgsize: The maximum byte length of any single message.

noblock: Disable the default blocking behavior (disabled).

 [ &#45;&#45;no&#45;block &#124; &#45;&#45;nb &#124; &#45;n ] Open descriptor as non&#45;blocking.

 Default Blocking (Non&#45;blocking operation is disabled.)

 [ &#45;&#45;time &#124; &#45;t ] &lt;tenths second&gt; Set maximum time to block in tenths of a second.

Copy&#45;in will block if no space on queue for a new message.

Copy&#45;out will block if no message on queue to be read.

 Default No time limit for condition to clear.

 [ &#45;&#45;priority &#124; &#45;&#45;pri &#124; &#45;p ] &lt;0 .. 31&gt; Set the message priority during Copy&#45;in.

 Default 15

Lower value is a higher priority. The mqueue delivers the oldest message of the highest priority first.

 [ &#45;&#45;unlink &#124; &#45;&#45;ul &#124; &#45;u ] Unlink (delete name) queue name prior to close. Like a file descriptor, the queue remains available to any queue descriptor that has it open at the time of the unlink.

